- [Instructor] The Java API for RESTful web services
or JAX-RS provides an API
for development of web services built
using the REST architectural style.
Java EE developers can use JAX-RS
to simplify the development
of REST-based services using an approach centered
around POJOs, annotations and the HTTP protocol.
The JAX-RS API allows developers
to built simple POJOs that are annotated
to support the construction of a REST API.
The annotations are primarily applied to classes known
as resources and their methods known as resource methods.
These classes provide an implementation
for REST API resources and endpoints found
in the design of an API.
JAX-RS annotations map to parts of the HTTP request
providing developers easy access to data sent
in the request.
This eliminates the need
to parse an HTTP request.
Most JAX-RS implementations
are built on top of the servlet API.
However, they abstract away lower level requests
and response processing code necessary
for working with servlets.
Let's get a quick overview of how it works.
The annotation-based approach in JAX-RS
makes it easy to establish a JAX-RS application.
Using the ApplicationPath annotation,
we establish the base URI for endpoints
or resource paths in the API.
In this example, the HsportsRestApplication class
is annotated with the ApplicationPath annotation
and extends the Application class.
This sets up the base path for the API as /hsports/api.
JAX-RS REST APIs contain resources
that correspond to objects
within our domain that are exposed through API endpoints.
To build a resource, we add the path annotation
at the class level on a Java POJO
to create an endpoint for accessing that resource.
The path annotation is actually concatenated then
with the base URI
that we specified using the ApplicationPath annotation.
Within the resource class,
we create resource methods
to handle the incoming HTTP calls to the API.
When JAX-RS selects the appropriate resource method
to handle an HTTP request,
it uses these mapping annotations
to determine which method to invoke.
The GET annotation on our getItem resource method
impacts this selection.
It indicates that the getItem method
will only handle HTTP GET requests
so if we received an HTTP POST,
this method would not be invoked.
The Produces and Consumes annotations also impact
how a resource method is selected.
There is matching that occurs
when we receive the request based
upon the media types provided or consumed
by a resource method.
These map to the Accepts and Content-Type headers
on the request.
When building resources,
we can apply the Path annotation
at the resource method level
to construct new endpoints within the resource class.
Additionally, the Produces and Consumes annotations
can be applied at the resource level
for more granular control of our request mappings.
The JAX-RS API contains additional annotations
that allow us to map almost every part of the request,
including path parameters,
query parameters, cookies and headers
from the HTTP request.
You will see several of these in action
in the upcoming lessons.
Another great feature of JAX-RS
is its support for custom serialization
to the designated media type for custom objects.
This example returns a custom POJO
from the resource method
which JAX-RS serializes to our defined media type JSON.
So JAX-RS is able to handle the conversion
from a Java object to a response format
such as JSON without any code by the developer.
On the contrary, JAX-RS supports deserialization
of JSON to custom object types.
This example deserializes the JSON
in the request body to a custom item type specified
as a parameter in the resource method.
These features make JAX-RS a great option
for Java EE developers
that architect their applications using REST APIs.
Let's take a closer look as we work throughout the chapter.